# Description for result files under folder `results/breed_prediction/`

## Figures
- `breeds_heatmap_main_beforeQC.png`: 
Generated by `scripts/breed_prediction/breeds_joint_heatmap_beforeQC.R`.
The heatmap shows the clustering of 498 dogs with breed provided, using variant allele frequency (VAF) values of the 2,783 breed-specific germline base substitution and small indel variants. For dogs with paired Normal and Tumor samples, the normal one is used; Dogs only with Normal or Tumor samples are also used. These variants were discovered with the WES dataset. The “Provided Breed” bar and the “Disease” bar respectively indicate the breed and tumor type of each dog provided by the source studies. 12 breeds with more than 10 dogs are selected for breed specific variants identification.

- `breeds_heatmap_assignment_beforeQC.png`: 
Generated by `scripts/breed_prediction/breeds_joint_heatmap_beforeQC.R`.
The heatmap shows the clustering of 680 animals (498 dogs with breed provided and 182 dogs with no breed provided), using variant allele frequency (VAF) values of the 2,783 breed-specific germline base substitution and small indel variants. For dogs with paired Normal and Tumor samples, the normal one is used; Dogs only with Normal or Tumor samples are also used. These variants were discovered with the WES dataset. The “Provided Breed” bar and the “Disease” bar respectively indicate the breed and tumor type of each dog provided by the source studies. 12 breeds with more than 10 dogs are selected for breed specific variants identification.

## Text files
- `all_breed_specific_variants.txt`: 
Generated by `scripts/breed_prediction/breed_specific_variants.R`.
The list of breed specific variants identified from WES datasets. Union of `breed_enriched_variants.txt` and `breed_unique_variants.txt`.

- `main_clusters.txt` and `assignment_clusters.txt`: 
Generated by `scripts/breed_prediction/breed_specific_variants.R`.
The sample IDs with the same order as in figures `breeds_heatmap_main_beforeQC.png` and `breeds_heatmap_assignment_beforeQC.png`, respectively. These files are used to conduct breed validation/prediction.

- `assignment_clusters_phylogenetics.csv`: Breed assignment results based on VAF cluster (`breeds_heatmap_assignment_beforeQC.png`) and phylogenetic tree (`../phylogenetics/breedPlusMissingSample_breedSpecific.pdf`) results, and the union breed results of two analysis.
  - Note: If VAF cluster and phylogenetics gave conflict results (n=2), BreedFinal column was labeled as "Other".
  - Note: For tumor-only samples that are not included in the phylogenetic tree, BreedPhylo column was labeled as "Other".
- `assignment_clusters_phylogenetics_summary.csv`: Breed/missing/other counts for breed information based on provided metadata, VAF cluster, phylogenetics, and the union set.