# Description for result files under folder `results/QC/`

## Figures
Generated by `scripts/qc/combine_qc_table.R`.
Each dot represents a sample and the median is indicated by a black line. The dashed line specifies the QC cutoff. Each study is represented by the tumor type and the institute name. MT mammary tumor, BCL B-cell lymphoma, OM oral melanoma, OSA osteosarcoma, HSA hemangiosarcoma, BT Primary bladder tumor, UC Urothelial carcinoma, HS Histiocytic sarcoma. SI Sanger Institute, TGen Translational Genomics Research Institute, UPenn University of Pennsylvania, CU Cornell University, Upad University of Padua, CSU Colorado State University, UTok The University of Tokyo, UU Uppsala Uuniversity, GU Ghent University, NIPS National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Umis University of Missouri, UHel University of Helsinki. 
- `Sequence_read_pairs.pdf`: Distributions of total read pairs per sample of the tumor and normal sample sets of each study.
- `Uniq_mapping_rate.pdf`: Distributions of per sample rate of read pairs that aligned concordantly and uniquely to the canFam3 reference genome.
- `Fraction_mapQ30.pdf`: the fraction of reads with mapping quality of >= 30
- `CDS_mapping_rate.pdf`: CDS-targeting rate (the fraction of read pairs that align concordantly and uniquely to the canFam3 CDS regions)
- `mean_coverage.pdf`: mean read coverage in CDS regions
- `rmse.pdf`: root-mean-square error (RMSE) between the actual distribution and theoretical distribution (based on the Poisson distribution) of sequence coverage in CDS regions.


## Text files
Generated by QC pipeline `scripts/qc/Snakefile`
- `Total_WES_BWA_CDS.combined.txt`: Detailed QC table for read pair, uniq mapping rate, CDS targeting rate, and mean CDS coverage.
- `Total_WES_Randomness_Summary.combined.txt`: Detailed QC table for RMSE.
-  `WES_Total_Mapping_quality.combined.txt`: Detailed QC table for fraction of reads with mapping quality of >= 30.